Didi/navigationview search (#677)
telerik/maui-docs: controls/pdfviewer/search/programmatic.md

---
title: Programmatically
page_title: .NET MAUI PDF Viewer Documentation - Programmatically
description: Learn how to search programmatically in the PDF Viewer without using the buil-in rtoolbar items. 
position: 0
slug: pdfviewer-search-overview
---

# .NET MAUI PDF Viewer Search Programmatically

> PDF Viewer for .NET MAUI allows you to programmatically search in the document. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PDF Viewer for .NET MAUI allows you to programmatically search in the document.
```

## Manual Searching

You can use the `SearchAsync` method of the `SearchSettings` to manually initiate an async search operation with the provided text and search options.

> Here is an example for `SearchAsync` method and custom buttons for programmatically navigate to next and previous search results:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example with the `SearchAsync` method and custom buttons for programmatically navigating to the next and previous search results:
```
